Expanded abstract and slides for the talk given at the 2011 SEG Annual Meeting
in San Antonio, USA.

Results were generated using open-source software [Fatiando a
Terra](http://fatiando.org)

Published expanded abstract:
[doi:10.1190/1.3628201](http://library.seg.org/doi/abs/10.1190/1.3628201)

A PDF version of the expanded abstract is available from
[my personal page](http://fatiando.org/people/uieda/)

Slides are available on figshare:
[doi:10.6084/m9.figshare.156863](http://dx.doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.156863)

Citation:

Uieda, L., and V. C. F. Barbosa (2011), Robust 3D gravity gradient inversion by
planting anomalous densities, SEG Technical Program Expanded Abstracts, vol.
30, pp. 820-824, doi:10.1190/1.3628201.


# Robust 3D gravity gradient inversion by planting anomalous densities

**Leonardo Uieda and Valéria C. F. Barbosa**

We present a new gravity gradient inversion method for estimating a 3D
density-contrast distribution defined on a grid of prisms. Our method consists
of an iterative algorithm that does not require the solution of a large equation
system. Instead, the solution grows systematically around user-specified
prismatic elements called "seeds". Each seed can be assigned a different density
contrast, allowing the interpretation of multiple bodies with different density
contrasts and that produce interfering gravitational effects. The compactness of
the solution around the seeds is imposed by means of a regularizing function.
The solution grows by the accretion of neighboring prisms of the current
solution. The prisms for the accretion are chosen by systematically searching
the set of current neighboring prisms. Therefore, this approach allows that the
columns of the Jacobian matrix be calculated on demand, which greatly reduces
the demand of computer memory and processing time. Tests on synthetic data and
on real data collected over an iron ore province of Quadrilátero Ferrífero,
southeastern Brazil, confirmed the ability of our method in detecting sharp and
compact bodies.
